<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## Mean

Mean Stack Server File

**Parameters**

-   `opts` **[Object][1]** the options passed to create the server
-   `done` **[Function][2]** the callback function
    MIT Licensed

## self

self context to be used through out the application

### dir

stores the root directory at dir

### opts

stores the options pass in to the server

### run

stores the run function incase you need to spin up any other servers

### logger

creates the logging throught the entire app

### environment

gets & store the current environment

### settings

gets & store the current settings based off of the environment

### port

sets the port based on the options or settings

### middleware

sets up all middleware & placed after db connect to give middleware access

### mail

sets up mailer after db connect to give it access

## mongoDB

Connect to MongoDb & Register mongoose schemas

## registerSystemInfo

setupRegister > Used to gather all modules to gether and to register them properly

## configMiddleware

setupExpressConfigs > Used to set up expressjs initially, middleware & passport.

## passport

setupAuthentication > Used to set up passport authentication & sessions

## securityMiddleware

setupExpressSecurity > Used to set up helmet, hpp, cors & content length.

## headersMiddleware

setupExpressHeaders > Used to set up the headers that go out on every route.

## loggerMiddleware

setupExpressLogger > Used to set up our morgan logger & debug statements on all routes.

## setupTools

setupTools > Used to set up every tool in the tools directory.

## buildRoutes

setupStaticRoutes > Used to set up all system static routes including the main '/\*' route with ejs templating.

## errorMiddleware

errorMiddleware > Used to set up our customer error handler in the server folder. NOTE: This goes after routes because we do not want it potentally default to express error handler

## maxCDN

maxCDN - **_ OPTIONAL _**  > Used to purge the max cdn cache of the file. We Support MAXCDN

## auto

auto  - connectMongoDb :  server > Used to finsh the final set up of the server. at the same time we start connecting to mongo and turning on the server.

## SocketIO

Mean Stack SocketIO Server File

**Parameters**

-   `opts` **[Object][1]** the options passed to create the server
-   `done` **[Function][2]** the callback function
    MIT Licensed

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function
